Hello, everyone.
Welcome back.
And in this lecture will understand how is recursion the most important?
It plays a very vital role in dynamic programming.
So basically, dynamic programming is equal to.
Because in.
Less optimisation.
Okay, look, if we have a good recursive approach for any problem, then we can easily convert into
a solution into a dining program solution.
Because every then rebranding solution just I'm just mark my words, every dynamic programming solution
has a recursive approach.
So everything but programming solution will have a recursive solution inside it, which will be further
optimized.
Nothing better goes in place optimization.
If you face any other type of programming problems, of course the course is going to be and you will
face a lot of programming problems.
Right.
What I suggest is in the for the beginners, but any of the writing programming problem just write a
simple recursion, whatever recursion you can write a very easy, simple equation about it.
And then after writing a good recursive solution.
Because we know, because the solutions, the excitement, because the solutions are very exponential.
They take a lot of time, as we have seen in the human activities and other as well.
And also I have a good question for you, audio, which I'll be calling integration and then we'll see
how it can be optimized.
Everyday presentation is nothing but a gathering place optimization.
So what any of the problem you face in dynamic programming?
They try to create integrated solution.
The more stronger you are integration, the more strongly you'll get in dynamic programming.
They look ready to go this solution.
If you're able to find out the correct answer of it by using integration, then nothing but just optimize
it and how to optimize it.
I already shared it.
Is memorization place.
You can use memorization.
You can use tabulation whatever you want.
But right now, let's focus on the recursive part and not the optimal.
Well, I have a problem with you that I want to share it.
Is this the number of vs?
It's a very standard problem and there's a special thing you realize in this and you'll understand why
do we why do we need about some sequences?
Why are some sequences very famous like curly numbers, those unique numbers.
So firstly, number of ways to fill in every with zeros and ones.
That's that there are no consecutive ones.
Yep.
So.
So as I said, if you are struggling with any other TV problems, if you're a beginner, a very.
Yeah.
So I do begin with this problem.
How to solve this problem.
This idea.
Recursive solution.
Don't think of anything.
Just like the recursive solution.
Think about.
As only I wanted to explain this right.
We need to firstly think of a state and what is a state that I want to take?
Like what is a state history to present it to you write some function call in into fun and funny XCOM
of icon my versatility.
It's this fun.
Exclaim of I There is a state aid.
It will depend on other states which is XCOM.
Which is nothing but fun.
XCOM x minus one y commander.
And to do something like this it will depend on other states.
But in Italy we need to decide a state.
Like what state can I use?
Can I take?
And after deciding that state, we have to.
Code that stated recursively.
Nothing it.
And of course, we'll have a base case which will then be the answer to let's find a state.
Let's find a state for this answer.
Before that.
Let's understand, this is an example.
So let's say I have an area of land three full.
And I have to fill it with zeros and ones because then there are no category ones.
So how many of these are there?
So let's see if I can win the first place in the first location.
What can I fill?
This will be more or less like a tree.
So let me make a tree instant.
So that in the first index.
What I have is that I can play zero, but I can this one eight.
If I place zero in the first index.
In this second index.
So this is first to every depth of this tree is a index.
So in this second index, so this is the first index rate and my arrows lenses right now.
So let's say end is equal to the length of the area.
If in the first place I have kept zero.
So we'll figure out about one later.
Let's talk about 0/1.
So what numbers can I please?
In the second place I can place zero as well.
Is one correct?
Because the only condition is that there are no consecutive ones.
But if I played zero in the second place, in the third place, I can be zero as well is one.
But if I placed one in the second place, I can only play zero in the.
Third base.
So what does this particular.
The question.
This is the going this is a.
What does this represent?
This represents 000 is a valid way because there are no consecutive ones.
This represents the second one, which is.
The spots it represents 001 cool.
Again, 100% 0108.
Now let's talk about if.
I'm busy even placing one on the index.
Zero.
If I place one on the index zero, I can only place zero on index two.
So this is an index fund.
This is only index two.
And what can I place an index three?
I can place both zeros and ones.
Eight.
So yeah.
Again, let's.
The debt is 100.
And this is 10.3.
So how many number of these are there?
Place.
To fill in at every DeRozan so they're not going to go grievance nothing but five number.
I hope you understood this part.
LAKE How is the discussion being formed?
Right, that if okay, well, basically let's try to let it go to the function.
I'm going slow here because I want you to understand this part.
This is the most important part of forming a state because of state which will depend on the state.
There is a different thing that is called optimal substructure.
We already heard about it.
Right now we will just see what state can emulate.
So let's see.
Little.
I'm starting from day zero.
I'm trying to place zeros and ones and zeros in once again and again.
But I will say, let's say F off, let's index.
Will evolve.
Index will represent number of ways.
Number of ways of forming answered.
Eight.
Okay.
Let's say number of ways of filling the.
Filling the area with the 001 says there there are no consecutive ones.
If.
If I.
Zero.
Great.
And once I didn't say.
Well.
So, look, let me go again over this.
So this is a footprint.
This means I'm actually taking every index equal to whether I place zero of one on this index and tell
me the number of days from here till the end of the 88, basically.
Okay.
So initially, what is the final answer?
The final answer is nothing really for zero.
Or instead let's to everyone.
We are considering one base indexing over here.
So if I if I have an edit listed starting from one I for one is equals to the complete answer because
everyone will tell me what is the answer.
If I place.
At zero of one from 1 to 28.
Similarly, if obvi means the answer, you feel they are in the province to fill the area.
If I place zero one on index I and the answer from I do index and.
Well.
Okay, so let's try to write it because solution and then I think it will be more clear.
Okay, so let's go.
Okay.
So this is not simple.
Let's.
And now what we'll do is we'll simply write a function, let's call it fun, and I'll just see how this
fun and this fun will be our function, which will give us the number of ways to fill this particular
edit rate.
Let me just remove this and.
So as I said, I'll be taking index initially.
So let's pass index as one initially.
Right.
And also that sparse end so that the function knows where to stop, let's say, and is equals to five.
Right now we we have an area of land value and we want to find out.
The number of ways of doing so.
Eight And finally.
Okay.
We will see that later.
There are other things that will come in to this function, but we'll see that later.
I have an index and I have an is it and is the lentil which I have to go.
So I'm starting from index equals to what?
Well, so at a particular index, what I can do is I can either place.
At a particular Nicaraguan to his mother, I can be zero.
At their place.
Zero here.
And the second is our place.
One.
Yeah.
This is what I what I can do at a particular rate.
As you can see, guys, I'm not taking it in that I'm not actually formulating in at it.
I'm just visualizing it that if I place one over there, how?
My answer depends on the further index.
If I play zero here, our minds are different on the other index, but well, let's dig on it.
And it it sounds anything goes to zero.
So what is this one?
Dallas understands me.
This answer value, which is.
Answer.
For Eddie.
Index two and number of ways of making this from index to.
And that we get it well.
As a place zero here if I will please zero 28 then I can easily say that answer is goes to place whatever
you want to place on the index or index.
Eight.
Let's say it is equals two, index plus one and will be as it is one.
But I cannot place one here without knowing what is placed on the previous index.
I want to know where it is based on the previous and then only I will be able to place one.
Right.
Because the problem is that you can't place two consecutive ones.
If I if I can't place two consecutive ones and I need to know what is kept on the previous location
for that, what I'll do is I'll just take a boolean with me.
So I'm just writing a normal legacy solution, which is let's think of Boolean, which is called one.
This will tell me whether one is placed on the previous index or not.
Indeed, negative eight, because as you can see.
If one is placed on the previous recursive call, then I can only place zero with it.
I cannot respond again, but if zero 300 goes to God I can be zero as well is one.
So.
Let's come back over here and I have a relevant.
Okay.
So tell me.
Just think about it.
What will be the value?
The idea that I should pass in this function when I when I'm placing zero.
It should be what's right for us, because this one boolean represents whether liquidated, one represents.
Whether.
Divis index.
IZRAEL Well, if I'm if I'm placing zero added this is my case for zero eight.
That means I despise false to it that I placed zero.
But it's not one.
One will be false.
And when when I when can I place one over there?
I can only place one over here when one is equal to false.
Two.
Okay, let me do nim this.
PBS.
It's called previous Red Bull.
If previous one is false, that means if I'm not pleased when?
Before then I can press one here.
To answer will be equal to.
And this is index plus one comma and comma.
True.
Let's call it true.
Why am I calling it true?
Because now I'm placing one over here.
This is a case where I placed one and went to a place when there's only one condition and there should
not be a previous one in the previous record.
A condition.
So this is simple.
Simple aggression.
It's just violence.
If I remove comments and spaces.
Well, this is for zero.
I'm blessing zero because zero can be replace without any restrictions.
But one will be placed with the restriction, which is there should be no previous ones.
And initially what I'll do is I'll pass files over there, which is.
You can give any other zero or one on the first index because starting in the first ten days, we are
just passing all the initial pool and yeah, let's build this.
Okay.
So why won't this work by?
Am I getting some errors?
Because we are.
Yeah.
Segmentation for it.
So when do we get segmentation for it?
When there's a stack overflow or does a stack overflow when we go over the recursion and build separate?
If there is no base case, then it will keep on going forever.
The index will keep on increasing by one.
It will never know when to stop.
And they look.
Let's say the biscuit index is equal to N plus one because.
Bill and I are pleased right now that 0.1.07 when when the index starts from one goes through to three
four and then it goes to five.
Again, it tries to play zeros and ones and five is.
But when it reaches end plus one, five plus one, which just six rate.
So in this case and it will reach six, then I wanted to return.
Back pain and maturity didn't elaborate on this point.
I really didn't return this one because.
I'm keeping zeros and ones from the first index rate.
All those index have zeros and ones.
If all those index of zeros and ones date, this is a proper value arrangement that I want.
If it is a valid arrangement, then.
It really find out that that means it is a valid arrangement.
For example, it's come back here.
In this case, what happens is I play zero and again, I play zero and then I play zero.
Afterwards, what happens is this called the next index.
And of course, we can't go above it.
So what I see right now, I'm one and plus one.
That means this is a.
Valid arrangement.
So if that is a valid arrangement, just return me one then I've got one valid arrangement from it.
Eight.
So I just simply don't run with this example because I'm going slow.
I'm repeating a lot of things here because I want you to.
Focus on direction back.
So let me read it again and let's see if it feels so.
As we can see, it did not finish reading.
It gave me 38.
So this is four for as I said, let's try it for three.
Cool.
So four three than it is right now.
I just want you to.
Be a burden over you, and then you will easily understand it yourself.
The pattern you can easily see.
But.
What I'll do is I'll run it from net seven and let's say it goes till ten late and I just pass I guess
develop and over there what is in and is the length of the edited.
Right now I'm thinking about one.
Life and is the land of the area that I'm thinking about.
So I'm just passing it as I.
So it will tell the answer for one reason, then it will tell the answer for to Ryland and so on.
And so I'm basing this and it's I, which is a variable let's build this.
But so is.
And you hear see that there is a pattern involved in this situation.
Two, three, five, eight, 1320 134 Do you remember this to be any of the series that you have heard
about?
Right.
But this is a.
Through an exquisite.
Okay.
So as we know from when equity starts from one, then one.
Then one plus one is two and two is three and so on, right?
Five and eight and so on.
So again, here we are getting answers is fibonacci's series for particular i.e. let's see if I is equal
to one.
Answer equals two.
Here we can see that the answer for this series equals to Fibonacci of ten plus eight.
But if it goes to one answer, it goes straight to if I go through to answer, he goes to three.
If I go to three answers, it goes to five.
Well, you can easily see.
To ensure dance music goes to nothing but forbidden to give endless to a low ebb.
This is a very standard type of caution.
And by this we realize by this problem, we realize that all those CDs are kind of related to.
We would have never thought that the cities with this particular arrangement would give us unique numbers
as the answers.
They don't.
Yeah.
So here, I leave you with a problem, which is if the answer to it goes to Fibonacci numbers, then
why?
Why, why evolve the recursive relation, the reform rate?
To hear that goes in relation to that form, let me write it also loop.
Releasing the deformities index bomber boolean value which is previous one and.
And the length of the area.
Right.
And what I'll do is in the next part, I want you to understand why is the recording solution not equal
to something like this Fibonacci of index?
Is it goes through the panic of index plus.
We're going to give you an X minus one.
Let's see when I go for Knicks minus, I mean, different ethnicities.
I just think about it and then we will come back to it in the later section of the course.
Later in the evening, the debut section.
This was just about an introduction video that every new programming solution will have a recursive
solution added.
At its heart aid and.
So we can also discuss about the complexity of this function.
And this is normal recursion.
So what will the complexity of this the complexity of this request to the Fibonacci numbers?
It is 144.
How are we getting 144?
Because we are summing up those many ones.
Two, we are going to do the end of the tree coming back, going and coming back and moving up and down
recursively and adding all these ones.
Well.
So, yeah.
So the.
Dan, complexity of this is off, Fibonacci, off and blistering.
It's all fancy because this is a recursive solution.
Now, just think about it.
How many parameters in this function are variables?
Index is a variable.
We can see that index is continuously bending.
Aid is end changing days and is not changing rate in all the recursive calls and is constant rate and
our variable is previous one, whether it is false or true.
So there are only two values of it.
If I want to memorize it, if I want to save the answer and you know, not call the recursion again,
if it is already been calculated, then how many states can I have here?
I can have index because index is changing from 1.8 indexing to previous ones of states.
That means.
Index in two previous ones and where this province went, how many previous ones are there?
Because only these two are the these two are varying rate, these many combinations I can have eight.
So how many indexes are there and indexes and how many previous ones are there.
And into two.
I just need an area of and cross to do memorize this recursive solution and to bring its complexity
from all Fibonacci numbers back to.
Linear rate because this is a linear series begins here and into the easy goes to linear rate window
in.
If I want to memorize it, I can also memorize it and then it becomes a dynamic programming solution.